all right now without giving away
everything obviously give us an idea a
little bit of it well you know what what
takes place with what you do to help
these guys and I'm guessing girls to do
an increase their vertical one of the
first things that an accent need to
think about is that training to be an
explosive athlete it's a
counterintuitive because most athletes
go out there and they run stairs for
hours or they do drills for hours and
afterwards are so tired with covered in
sweat and they think to themselves you
know what I have to have made some games
on my vertical from that workout because
it was killing but really you need to be
focusing on the maximum amount of
explosion during your workouts as
possible it's definitely quality over
quantity so that's probably the biggest
thing that kids need to do more high
intensity and less repetitive don't take
what they're doing is a defective
training itself to jump at a certain
height which is not their maximum height
more at a repetitive nature's though
they're training more like an endurance
athletes and they are an explosive
athlete so there are drills I'm guessing
in your manual that help with the the
quality over quantity the more explosive
stuff to create the muscle memory and
increase the vertical right no matter
how many times you drill that into an
athlete said they always think that they
can do more and what they end up doing
is putting more ready undermine the
intensity of each repetition because
that's going to eat good go ahead I'm
gonna say you don't keep you up if you
run 100 meter you're not going to train
by running the 800 meter or the mile
because it's going to train them up to
do a different type of activity right
just as a maximum efforts effort
vertical
it's completely different saying been a
submaximal that's a vertical jump so
kids are trained to jump at a lower
level and just be able to do that more
amount of time interesting and somebody
told me this maybe you can back it up
Jacob when we're talking with Jacob
Hiller the author of the jump manual if
you want to increase your vertical jump
will tell you the website and how to get
in touch with him and you know get more
info on all this James somebody told me
that you mentioned explosiveness before
that Bo Jackson maybe was one of the
most explosive athletes ever fastest to
jump through the roof and everything
because his explosiveness was off the
charts because of the amount of I guess
a pressure or torque whatever the
correct term is that you put into the
ground you're supposed to get that back
up out of the ground as you're running
or jumping it is that accurate all right
that's the physics of vertical jump you
press and you put pressure into the
ground and that forces return through
your legs and so the more amount of
force you can place to the ground in the
minimum amount of the time is going to
determine how explosive the movement is
so there you see strong people out there
and you know they can squat a thousand
pounds to how quickly can they do that
and so it's the person who has the best
combination of strength and the ability
to produce that strength in short
amounts of time that's going to be an
explosive athlete so your program Jacob
is it one-dimensional is it
multi-dimensional give us an idea of you
know the the way you go about
approaching this to have players to
increase their vertical I like to take a
multi-faceted approach because you'd be
surprised at how many different ways
there are to gain an advantage on
vertical on it first of all for Malone
increasing your form alone put two to
six inches on your vertical jump no in
my form what exactly do you mean before
when I think I don't think of a form
when I jump to be honest with you Jake
I played in high school and a couple
years in college division 31 real good
but they played and I just jump don't
get the ball jump what do you mean by
four well think about this are you left
with a jumper or a right-footed jumper I
would jump higher off my left foot if
you tried to jump off your right foot
you probably couldn't get in here time
exactly but your right foot was probably
just as strong as your left foot okay
but what's going on is you're your
ability to use the strength that you
have is inhibited because you don't have
proper form and form is not only how you
jump with it how your body is able to
use the strength that already had see
the more you do a certain activity the
correct way the more your body knows how
to use the power and strength it already
has during that movement so the first
thing some people don't better jumpers
and others but almost everyone I know
and it increases at least two inches
just from their form whether it's the
two photos in one perform and practicing
that formula right that's just one
factor Wow and interesting you need to
be working on your strength for sure a
lot of programs are out there telling
people that they can get the maximum how
the vertical jumps just by training
their quickness or the plyometric
ability and that's not true you need to
have the strength program and you need
to focus on your strengths and just rub
your legs are the light of your body it
the light of your body it's going to
feel and the more hours you're going to
be able to output you know in course
Brown is important too is it not yeah
coach think is very important because
like you said when you put forced to the
ground that course is going to be
returned through your body and if you're
not able to stabilize that force as it
is transferred back to your body you're
going to lose some of that power because
you just don't have the ability to
handle it alright so for people out
there that are listening to this and
have kids that are coming up in high
school or kids that are all in college
and they want
improve their game so that they get the
more playing time at the collegiate
level how can they get involved with in
touch with you or get the jump manual so
what's the way to go about doing that
out of the quick just to go to the
website www jump manual calm I have a
contact form so you can throw out to get
in contact with me I usually return the
emails between 24 and 48 hours so i get
back everybody who emailed me filled
with the loads getting pretty great it's
a good problem to have though is it not
Jacob yeah I did it better than the
opposite yes yeah I'm saying he will get
back to that quickly he did with me as
we tried to to set up this interview and
basically you're they're going to get a
manual which gives them the program to
follow right Jacob well look at the
manual I also if you have a coaching
program where people have access to make
those you know how you no matter how big
the book is people is going to have
questions that are very specific to
their situation and I think it's
important for any athlete to have
complete confidence in the program in
order to have that you need to have
access to somewhat easy to do can give
you the answers you need so if you
purchase this not only do you get the
man you can t get of a personal trainer
to go with it yes 30 days for free that
way you can get any initial question
fast but a lot of people will go beyond
that and right now the prices it's kind
of embarrassing lilo for the monthly but
I do want to help as many athletes
because I can all right again it's dub
dub dub jump manual calm if you want to
increase your vertical i wish i wish i
knew you when i was in high school I
might have been able to dunk more in a
volleyball Jacob you can still get it I
think you can still get it Kenny I don't
know about that we'll have to talk about
here and if we do that might be the
greatest testimonial you you would be
able to put up on your website if you
get me dunking the basketball Jacob oh
hey I'll be in touch with you thanks for
coming on tonight again the website is
dub dub dub jump manual calm Jacob
killer is our guest and you can get in
touch with him through the website if
you want to